it's hard one like you have a friend
behind the camera because you're just
like I won I'm like chatting with you
[Music]
today I'm making classic chicken noodle
soup this is a whole chicken noodle soup
meaning we're gonna throw this entire
bird into the pot and we are going to
remove different parts of the bird as
they finish cooking so that none of the
meat is dry and overcooked by the end of
it so that's what makes this recipe
special and the key to a really
delicious full flavored chicken noodle
soup is obviously the broth so we're
gonna spend a lot of time and care
working on the broth to begin always
seasoning the chicken before it goes in
I'm gonna season this pretty heavily as
you can imagine and just give it a
couple of minutes to let the salt sort
of penetrate and soak into the chicken
so that the meat itself is actually
seasoned and not just the broth we'll
set that aside so while the chicken sits
for a few minutes and you could do that
up to 24 hours in advance so actually be
an awesome move on your part I just
didn't do that I'm gonna cut up the
aromatics that go into this broth so
it's two whole onions and you will
notice that I'm leaving the skins on you
don't have to if you're skeeved out by
it
however the golden hue of the skins is
actually gonna impart a golden color to
the broth and that's gonna signify like
delicious chickeny flavor so I recommend
you leave them on to carrots you can
peel them if they're nasty but these are
nice I'm just gonna chop off the ends
and just a super rough chop on these to
expose some more of their surface area
so that it flavors the soup
two celery sticks also roughly chopped
going in and then I have one tablespoon
of whole black peppercorns they will
ultimately get strained out of the broth
so it doesn't matter they're whole and
not cracked and then two heads of garlic
which I'm splitting crosswise in half to
keep them relatively intact but to
expose their flavor and those go in
skins and all again it's getting
strained out all right and then a couple
of sprigs of fresh dill we're going to
add dill at the end for like a little
fresh vibrant moment but you can also
add it to the broth to impart some of
its flavor so the chickens going into
the pot nestled on top of everything and
I'm going to add 14 cups of water so you
want basically just enough water to
barely cover the chicken so that it's
all submerged but not so much that the
broth is weak and unflavored full okay
so we're going over to the stove and I'm
going to bring this to a boil which will
take probably 10 or 15 minutes
we keep on waiting until the chicken
breast registers 155 at which point we
will take the chicken out and rest it
until it's cool enough to handle and
then we'll put the chicken back in and
I'll take you out again it's the whole
thing that's all for now so the internal
temperature of the chicken is 155 of the
breast at the thickest part so I'm gonna
turn this off momentarily and bring it
back over and now we are going to lift
this chicken up okay so one way to do it
is to kind of stick your tongues like
right into the cavity and then and then
tilt it to let some of that broth drip
back into the pot and you can always use
another like heavy spoon to kind of help
lift just let it drain for a sec and
then onto your cutting board and we will
let this rest here until it's cool
enough to handle like five or ten so we
are going to break this chicken down now
which is a lot easier than it seems if
you know where all of the kind of like
joint parts are in the chicken that make
it easy to kind of separate it all apart
so let's just go over the anatomy here
we are breast side up so here the two
breasts here are the two wings and then
here are the two legs which is 5 plus
drumstick so breast meat is white meat
which means that it has a tendency to
dry out which is why we're going to
remove it from the carcass now and leave
it off to the side we'll shred it and
we'll add it back into the soup later on
because we don't want it to cook any
further than it already has on the other
hand the legs and the wings are dark
meat they can handle a little bit more
time actually they'll benefit from it
they'll get really nice and breezy and
tender and the stock will continue to
build flavor while they're in it so
we're gonna pull this wing out from the
breast and then take a knife and just
make a cut right in between the joint
oops and it comes apart so making
incisions right where the breast and the
legs meet come down the side here and
then you can use your hand to kind of
pop this out of the socket which is kind
of gross but it's fine you pop that
joint out and it will actually just come
off by tearing it now we take off the
breast meat there's a breast bone that
runs right down the middle of the
chicken and you're gonna use your knife
to sort of carve away the flesh from
both sides of that bone too leaving the
bone behind so first one just a little
to the left of that breast plate I'm
making a cut down and then I'm following
the contour of the carcass so angling my
knife a bit to carve the meat off so
there's one breast and then I like to
actually flip it around because I find
it easier to sort of carve off this way
because I'm right-handed so now on the
other side of the breast making a cut
down and then carving it off and away
from the carcass okay so two legs two
breasts two wings and the rest of the
carcass so the carcass is going back in
there's tons of flavor in the bones lots
of gelatin there's meat still left on
there that has a lot to give still we're
gonna put the wings also back into the
pot we're going to take the skin right
off of these legs because as it cooks
it'll render and there'll be a lot of
fat in it otherwise if you want a clear
broth you need to take it off and the
legs go back in and we go back over the
stove and bring this back up to a simmer
okay this is gonna simmer for 40 minutes
until the leg meat is impossibly tender
so just give it time so what's left here
are our two chicken breasts I'm gonna
discard the skin and then you can use
Forks to shred or I actually just prefer
to do it with my hands and just shred
the meat into little bite-sized pieces
okay set that aside and we're gonna chop
the vegetables but first let's clean off
our cutting board what do you know
there's new dish soap here that's it
Gabi what's with the new dish soap chef
proof so now on to the remaining veg we
have carrots and celery in the broth but
we also are gonna bring them back into
the picture later on for like fresh
vegetables that are just tender and
cooked through I am gonna peel the
carrots for this one cuz they'll look
nicer they're kind of like presentation
carrots if you will if you know anything
about those and we'll just cut these
into thin poins very retro and then
likewise for the celery lobbing off the
kind of gross end so breast is shredded
vegetal
the chicken legs to finish braising
which will be another 15 minutes or so
and then we'll pull that apart and
strain the stock and then lastly and
this is the best part we'll dump in the
dead aleni
and cook the pasta right in the broth
which is nice because it's all happening
in one pot you don't have to bring pasta
water to a boil we'll talk about that
later
I am going to grab these tongs and take
a look but at this point you can see
that the broth is a very beautiful color
okay so golden hue thanks in part to the
skins of the yellow onions and the
amount of time that this broth spent in
contact with all of that chicken all the
bones the carcass
it's beautiful thing so I'm going to
fish around for the legs and just take a
little piece and see if it shreds right
off which it does which means it's
tender and we're good to go
so come back over here for a moment out
these legs so there's two of them we let
those cool for a minute and in the
meantime I'm going to strain out the
broth alright so now that all of the
vegetables and the bones have given
everything that they possibly can to
this broth we're gonna strain it all out
and into a fresh pot and we're gonna
discard all of this now because it's
really pretty lifeless at this point but
we used it for all that it's worth let's
throw this back on the heat and we'll
bring it up to a boil and we'll cook our
Giulini and there
so now we shred the meat the very very
tender leg meat which comes off very
easily with your hands and shred that
into the bowl with the chicken breast
okay
so here's all of our meat that's gonna
go back in hands one more time does
smell exactly like basil don't you guys
smell that it smells like summer okay
I'm chopping dill which I'm gonna stir
in a little bit later on
there's kind of a lot of dill in this
soup and that is because I love dill
very simply and I think that dill and
chicken noodle soup is one of life's
greatest pleasures however if you don't
like do you don't need to put the dill
in you could either leave it out or you
could use parsley instead or chives
cilantro I guess if you want to go that
way it's not essential but I think it's
nice let's go drop in or daleney the
nice thing about did aleni
is that it cooks very quickly and so you
can actually just cook it right into the
pot of broth as opposed to adding it to
a whole nother pot of boiling water if
you were to use a larger pasta like an
egg noodle for a penne or a fusilli or
something else you'd probably want to
cook that separately just because
there'd be so much starch and it would
take so long to cook but by the time it
was cooked your broth would be reduced
and it kind of throw the whole thing off
I engineered this recipe such that you
don't have to do any of that as long as
you use a small pasta so you just did
aleni
you could use orzo you could use the ABC
pasta something small macaroni would be
fine and the stock has just come to a
boil so I'm stirring in six ounces it's
not a full box
because this isn't the main event just
gonna give it a little bit of body we're
gonna cook this halfway so for about
four minutes before stirring in all of
the vegetables and the meat that we just
put picked there's a little bit of foam
here so I'm gonna start skimming again
always be skimming what are the other
small pastas of the world that's true
all right here we go back in with all of
the meat and then adding the fresh
veggies and then we'll just let this
cook another three or four minutes until
the daleney is cooked and the celery and
carrots are tender taste one more c'est
fini all right it was easy let's go back
we go
because we haven't really paid much
attention to seasoning yet here although
we did pretty aggressively seasoned the
chicken but this is your moment to
adjust the seasoning of the broth
did you guys season the broth just for
good measure not that it needs it and
then I'm a big fan of lots of black
pepper in my chicken noodle soup and
there goes all the dough you want the
dill to be nice and bright and fresh so
adding it sort of at the last minute you
could also just throw it out on the
table and have people at it as they as
they eat
okay let's dish it up make sure to get
lots of all the goodness and everyone
have some of my beautiful little
celery's my sweet sweet celery some
pretty dill for garnish some sprigs no
more black pepper that's all she wrote I
think what we've learned today and what
makes this chicken soup better than all
the other ones is that we spend a lot of
time on the broth so that's hugely
important in the deliciousness factor of
the soup and we took a lot of care in
being sure that the chicken breast
didn't get overcooked which is the bane
of my existence is overcooked chicken
breast and chicken noodle soup so now we
have perfectly cooked chicken
very flavorful broth tender chicken legs
just cooked through little slivers of
carrot and celery
lots of dill black pepper I'm a cute
little d'Alene's
I'm actually going home now I'm going
and actually leaving now so goodbye and
good luck I'm taking off this with me
we're gonna go eat this in bed but you
can't come there we can get rid of this
now